---
description: Which democratic means do we use?
---

# 3. Instruments \(50%\)

We are using mainly two different democratic instruments to take decisions at Latera. It's important to stress, that the processes for **decision making** are intendet to be the crown at the end of a creative, intuition and trust based process of **proposal forming,** where we are striving to integrate **"**[**How we think"**](../ii.-how-we-think/) and leading compassionat relationships. 



## Decision Making

### Via a Role's Mandate

Every Ongoing and Project based employee does take on one or several Roles in the organization with a respective Role Description. The role description defines that state of the art of the Role's purpose, domains, authority, and tasks. 

### Via Advice Process  

Advice process means that any employee can make any decision as long as two conditions are met.

1. They seek the advice of "experts"
2. They seek the advice of the people that will be most directly impacted by their decision

It's about foresight, being informed, acting with empathy. The bigger the impact of the decision, the larger the group that should be consulted prior to making the decision. If the advice process seems to become ineffective or insufficient, because e.g. the involved group get's too big, the topic too complex, or it's better to have more brains and hearts accountable, and the decission well documented, we move on from the Advice to the Consent Process.

More details on the Advice Process at the "[Reinventing](http://www.reinventingorganizationswiki.com/Decision_Making) [Organizations Wiki"](http://www.reinventingorganizationswiki.com/Decision_Making)

### Via Consent Process 



## Proposal Forming 





Kreativität, Intuition ist wichtig  systemisches Denken bei der Entscheidungsfindung 



