---
description: How we at Latera deal with ownership.
---

# II. How we share

## 1. Purpose – What motivates us?

_Key ways of doing business - Could include beliefs about people the world, anecdotes, etc._

We are interested to have a cooperative ownership and governance model becuse we want to support:

* fairer working-conditions
* organizational sustainability
* be part of the cooperative movement

## 2. Owners – Which stakeholders share ownership?

Key Stakeholders at Latera are 

* Employees \(Ongoing and Project Based Roles\)
* Members with voting rights
* Members with dividend rights
* App users
* Readers of Latera Mag
* Learning community
* Strategic partners and networks

Who is owning and controlling some or all of the organisations’ assets and values?

* The company owns itself --&gt; [Steward-Ownership model](https://purpose-economy.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Purpose_Booklet_EN_Digital.pdf)
* Elected Stewards are controlling strategy and operations, or/and
* Members elect stewards in annual meetings

## 3. Engagement – How are people contributing?

In which roles are we involved, participating, collaborating?

* Roles, Working-Groups
* Moving roles, job titles & job description

**List of how all stakeholdes control or influence the company in their own way and how we keep the motivated**

Engagment of emplyees and key-partners co-working/co-creation

Engagement of users of tools through giving feedback and writing about us

_Engagement of learning community ?_

## 4. Assets – What do we share?

What key assets do exist? How do we share them?

* algorithms
* code
* business-strategy
* knowledge
* behaviors
* work-processes
* brand
* profits

_Open source discussion_

## 5. Legal Forms – How do we embody and enforce ownership?

What legal structures serve responsible ownership and conscious liability?

[Steward-Ownership model](https://purpose-economy.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Purpose_Booklet_EN_Digital.pdf%20) \(p.19\)

_Currently there is the individual company Marita Heinzelmann that will be developed into a GmbH \(?\) that will hold the A and B Shares._

\_\_

## **6.** Liability – Who can be held liable?

Who could be sued, in case anything goes wrong in the key-business of the company?

Timeline 

At the moment: The founder of individual company.

Once the governance model ist established and the GmbH is formed: the elected stewards take the role of executives in case they act with intent or gross negligence, or the limited liability corporation, our german GmbH?. \(needs to be checked with lawyer\)

\*\*\*\*

## 7. Finance decisions – Who can take financial decisions?

Who has the right to influence financial decisions?

In daily business the elected finance stewards and certain **Roles** within their defined domain.

Overall financial strategy is decided by all members in the annual general meeting.

## 8. Financing – Where does the money come from?

Source of start-up capital and funding of investments 

* Equity from founder\(s\) \(Eigenkapital\)
* Pie \(Tracked non-monetary investments from members and partners\)
* Investment from Venture Philanthrops
* Grants and sponsorships

## **9. On-boarding – How do members join and exit?**

* How do members join?

  * On-boarding process inspired by Vanilla Way. Each potential new employee member needs to meet 4 roles \(mother discuss classical job-interview topics, hermit to reflect on values/principles, bear to do a trial project and vinemaker to celebrate\)

* How are HR things decided?
  * Each [Chapter-Lead](https://latera.gitbook.io/handbook/~/edit/drafts/-LVd2hDDYaa43RNx6Mjx/how-we-work-democracy-at-latera#7-structure-what-units-do-exist-and-how-do-they-relate) fullfills the role of a classical line manager \(Vorgesetzter\) and also the "Mother" role during the on-boarding process. They are the "go to person" to discuss Hiring, Training, Reviews, Development, Promotions, Salary, Bonuses and Expenses with their \(potential\) chapter member, along with the respective established policies at Latera.

## 10. Surpluses – How do we share profits?

For [steward-owned companies](https://purpose-economy.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Purpose_Booklet_EN_Digital.pdf), profits are a means to an end, not an endin and of themselves. All the profits generated by the company are either reinvested in the business, used to repay investors, shared with stakeholders, ****or donated to charity.

* Amont reinvested in the business is determined by laws \(Rücklagen\), the constitution of the legal entity, and the current strategy agreed by the members in the annual meetings.
* Amount used to repay investors is negotiated with respective investors and is aligend with the [steward-onwership](https://purpose-economy.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Purpose_Booklet_EN_Digital.pdf) principles. 
* Amount shared with other stakeholders, ****or donated to charity organizations is also agreed by the members in the annual meetings.
* Since the company is organized around the [steward-onwership](https://purpose-economy.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Purpose_Booklet_EN_Digital.pdf) principles, members do never have dividend rights. It is possible for members to become investors that do have dividend rights, though 

_--&gt; all needs to be checked with Purpose eG and lawyers!_

## **11. Agreements - How do we deal with agreements?**

* Constitution of the GmbH?
* Protocols and Documentation
* Any relevant agreements/policies
* Where do we do Contracts?

## **12. Groupings - How do other related parties own?**

this part needs more thinking

i wonder at one hand internally about maximum autonomy of each [Squad](https://latera.gitbook.io/handbook/~/edit/drafts/-LVd2hDDYaa43RNx6Mjx/how-we-work-democracy-at-latera#7-structure-what-units-do-exist-and-how-do-they-relate), and what this means for this question, also i wonder about e.g. each tribe, e.g. tool1, tool2, magazine, learning-units. are there subsidiaries or muttergesellschaften?

also about strategy partnerships, alliances, join-ventures, networks etc.

