---
description: 'Enabling participation, creativity and innovation through shared ownership.'
---

# 1. Reason

What motivates us to share ownership?

Our organization's purpose of helping people in a creative and empathic way, to deal with complex challenges in the world today, influences all areas in our company. The question on how we deal with power and ownership in our own organization is crucial for providing an environement where creativity can be unleashed and empathy/compassion is more than a lip service.

We at Latera belive, that the way we do our business today has a vast impact on human wellbing and our impact on the environment. Claiming equaliy and introducing collaborative processes is often times not enough. Participation and accountablity have their grounding in real possibilities to control assets and decissions. How do we share and control our assets at latera? By implementing an organizational model inspired by cooperative principles, adapted to the digital economy, is a creative, human organizational practice we are following. It supports:

* **fairer working-conditions,** through shared ownership and democratic governance
* levering of knowledge and resources, through **alliances** with other likemindet organizations
* **organizational sustainability**, through a less capital intensive and growth dependent business-model
* societal impact, through **contributing to a movement** of creating platform cooperatives and distributed autonomous organizations \(DAOs\)



