---
description: How are people motivated?
---

# 2. Engagement \(80%\)

We are intersted in an ongoin active contribution of all employees and and especially all members with voting power. This is how we hope, collective striving for the fullfillment of the organization's purpose and goals is possible, with dedication to love to details in daily tasks. Therefore we are supporting engagement that goes beyond a once a year vote at our organization's general assembly. This is what we do to help this:

**\#**_nochmal_ ****_hinterfragen_

#### Latera members knows their dance field and how to influence their work.

Each member knows the **roles** they carrie. Each role has a **role-description**, defining the role's purpose, domain, and a list of accountabilities. There is also a process for dealing with tensions that arise from unclear accountablities and that helps updating the role-descriptions when needed or creating and assigning new roles, if needed. __

_\(--&gt; we need to discuss if this makes sense or if we rather have a description of workign groups etc.!\)_

**A culture that values success as much as personal growth and healthy relationships.**

Inspired by Dragon Dreaming project design, tasks with the character of dreaming and celebration are valued as much as planning and doing. This is reflected by the amount of roles that support such tasks and the budget that is assigned to them. While planning and doing include "productive" actvities such as developement and operations, dreaming and celebration include activities such as bi-yearly or yearly **team-retreats**, quarterly **surveys** to help focus improvements**,** an **active** [**conflict-culture**,](../how-we-work-democracy-at-latera/9.-conflicts.md) a [**workspace**](../how-we-work-democracy-at-latera/5.-place-where-do-we-come-together.md) that supports informal exchange, [**rituals**](../how-we-work-democracy-at-latera/10.-rituals.md), [**peer assessments** ](../how-we-work-democracy-at-latera/untitled.md)on performance and collegiality, as well as education, training and personal development support, to support active ownership all that has been mentioned, within the scope of the member and the organizations capacity.

**People can find out themselves if they fit to the company before the start.**

People interested to join the organization are following a four-step [**on-boarding process**,](8.-on-and-off-boarding.md) that can help them realize if they fit to Latera before employment.

_\*\*\*\*_

_\*\*\*\*_

_--&gt; this is only about membes who have voting power only? what about the others?_

\*\*\*\*

_\#hier würde ich gerne nochmal in zusammenhang mit structure das ganze etwas anders ausarbeiten, mehr dazu im telefonat_

* \_\_



