---
description: How we enable participation through shared ownership.
---

# II. HOW WE SHARE

What motivates us to share ownership?

Our organization's purpose of helping people in a creative and empathic way, to deal with complex challenges in the world today, influences all areas in our company. The question on how we deal with power and ownership in our own organization is crucial for providing an environement where creativity can be unleashed and empathy/compassion is more than a lip service.

We at Latera belive, that the way we do our business today has a vast impact on human wellbing and our impact on the environment. Claiming equaliy and introducing collaborative processes is often times not enough. Participation and accountablity have their grounding in real possibilities to control assets and decissions. How do we share and control our assets at latera? By implementing an organizational model inspired by cooperative principles, adapted to the digital economy, is a creative, human organizational practice we are following. It supports:

* fairer working-conditions, through shared ownership and democratic governance
* levering of knowledge and resources, through alliances with other coops and likemindet partners
* sustainability, through a less capital intensive and growth dependent business-model
* societal impact, through contributing to the platform cooperativism movement

This chapter answers the following questions on central ownership variables, "how we share":

1. Stakeholders – Which stakeholders share ownership?
2. Engagement – How are people motivated?
3. Assets – What do we share?
4. Legal Form – How do we embody and enforce ownership?
5. Liability – Who can be held liable?
6. Finance decisions – Who can take financial decisions?
7. Funding – Where does the money come from?
8. On- & off boarding – How do members join and exit?
9. Surpluses – How do we share profits?
10. Agreements – How do we deal with agreements?

The following chapter deals with the interconnected questions on democratic governance – "how we work".

1. 2. \*\*\*\*









\_\_





## **9. On-boarding – How do members join and exit?**

* How do members join?

  * On-boarding process inspired by Vanilla Way. Each potential new employee member needs to meet 4 roles \(mother discuss classical job-interview topics, hermit to reflect on values/principles, bear to do a trial project and vinemaker to celebrate\)

* How are HR things decided?
  * Each [Chapter-Lead](https://latera.gitbook.io/handbook/~/edit/drafts/-LVd2hDDYaa43RNx6Mjx/how-we-work-democracy-at-latera#7-structure-what-units-do-exist-and-how-do-they-relate) fullfills the role of a classical line manager \(Vorgesetzter\) and also the "Mother" role during the on-boarding process. They are the "go to person" to discuss Hiring, Training, Reviews, Development, Promotions, Salary, Bonuses and Expenses with their \(potential\) chapter member, along with the respective established policies at Latera.



* Elections of Stewards, prozess der fachliche Kriterien stark berücksichtigt

## 10. Surpluses – How do we share profits?

For [steward-owned companies](https://purpose-economy.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Purpose_Booklet_EN_Digital.pdf), profits are a means to an end, not an endin and of themselves. All the profits generated by the company are either reinvested in the business, used to repay investors, shared with stakeholders, ****or donated to charity.

## **11. Agreements - How do we deal with agreements?**

* Constitution of the GmbH?
* Protocols and Documentation
* Any relevant agreements/policies
* Where do we do Contracts?

## **12. Groupings - How do other related parties own?**

